CHAPTER XXVII.
BOST NOT THYSELF OF TOMORROW, FOR THOU KNOWEST NOT WHAT A DAY MAY BRING FORTH.
Let another man praise thee, and not thine own mouth, A stranger, and not thine own lips.
A stone is heavy, and the sand weighty, But a fool's wrath is heavier than them both.
Wrath is cruel, and anger is outrageous, But who is able to stand before envy?
Open rebuke is better than secret love. Faithful are the wounds of a friend,
But the kisses of an enemy are deceitful. The full soul loatheth in honeycomb,
But to the hungry soul every bitter thing is sweet.
As a bird that wandereth from her nest, So is a man that wandereth from his place.
Ointment and perfume rejoice the heart, So doth the sweetness of a man's friend by
Thy known friend, and thy father's friend forsake not,
Neither go into thy brother's house in the day of thy calamity,
For better is a neighbor that is near than a brother far off.
My son, be wise, and make my heart glad, That I may answer him that reproacheth me.
A prudent man foreseeeth the evil and hideeth himself,
But the simple pass on and are punished.
Take his garment that is surety for a stranger, And take a pledge of him for a strange woman.
He that blesseth a friend with a loud voice rising early in the morning,
It shall be counted a curse to him. A continual dropping in a very rainy day,
And a contentious woman are alike. Whosoever hideeth her hideeth the wind,
And the ointment of his right hand which bereth itself.
Iron sharpeneth iron, so a man sharpeneth the countenance of his friend.
Whoso keepeth the fig tree shall eat the fruit thereof,
So he that waiteth on his master shall be honored.
As in water face answereth to face, so the heart of man to man.
Hell and destruction are never full, so the eyes of man are never satisfied.
As the finding pot for silver, and the furnace for gold,
So is a man to his praise.
Though thou shouldest bray a fool in a mortar among wheat with a pestle,
Yet will not his foolishness depart from him.
Be thou diligent to know the state of thy flocks,
And look well to thy herds, for riches are not forever.
And doth the crown endure to every generation?
The hay appearth, and the tender grass showeth itself,
And the herbs of the mountains are gathered,
The lambs are for thy clothing, and the goats are the price of the field.
And thou shalt have goat's milk enough for thy food,
For the food of thy household, and for the maintenance of thy maidens.